Hello, everybody. Thanks for joining the stream. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where
we belittle, no, where we deliver news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is
episode 233, recorded May 12, 2021. And I'm Brian Okken.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Eileen Mangami.
Well, welcome, Merlene. For people who don't know you, can you introduce who you are?
Sure. So I am a Pythonista, of course. And I am based in Harare, Zimbabwe. I am also
really involved with the Python community. So I'm currently the vice chair of the PSA
board of directors. The board I think for about like coming up on four years now
which is really exciting and it's been really like a very cool experience for
me. I'm also a software engineer. I work right now with the RAPIDS team at
NVIDIA and and have just been doing software engineering with them. I will
I'll talk a bit about that later.
But yeah, I'm trying to think what else.
I'm also a very avid reader
and just like doing other things besides software.
So yeah, that's pretty much me.
- Cool.
- That's awesome.
You're doing a bunch of cool stuff.
So I think Rapid seems like a really neat project
to work on as well.
And of course the Python community side is great.
So super happy to have you here.
- Brian, yeah, Brian, you know, having a good readme
is really important to a project, wouldn't you say?
- Yeah, definitely.
And I, for some reason, I don't know,
readmes are not difficult to write,
but I freeze up, it's a blank page syndrome, I think.
Often I've gone through and just like copied
from some other projects, what's in their readme?
But I don't think that that's like the best way
to go about it, really, 'cause sometimes you forget stuff.
So this was a, we have a recommendation from Johnny Metz.
It's a tool called readme.so.
And this is like totally fun.
It's just this interactive thing where you get to,
you get to add stuff.
So we've got the title.
You can, there's on the left hand side,
there's a bunch of sections where you can select
what you want to go into the readme.
And then it shows a preview on the right,
but you can also see the raw markdown.
And then in the middle, there's an editor,
so you can actually just edit the whole thing here.
But really, I don't know if I really would.
Project, project title.
What I'd probably do is go through and pick out,
to look at what sort of things I'd want.
So I'd probably maybe some acknowledgments,
if I took the, if I got some help from somebody,
maybe an API reference, if it's a library,
how to contribute. Oh, badges, definitely want badges. And then,
you know, maybe like how to run tests if you want to contribute.
If there's other cool projects using it, I'd want to use by all
these sorts of things. And then you can, the editor only selects
it only shows you the ones that one at a time, which is nice. But
then you've got this, this whole generated really nice looking
Readme with tables and everything built in.
And you can either just copy it or download it
and just run with it.
So I think this is really great.
I'll probably use this in the future.
- I really love this.
And I'm surprised about the psychological benefit
of just showing the little section with the one heading.
So for example, acknowledgements,
you just have #acknowledgements and the few things,
even though you're editing the whole Readme,
it seems so much more like,
"Oh, I'm gonna just work on that section."
It's really cool.
Marlene, what do you think?
- It's really, really cool.
I like it.
I think I'm gonna try it out.
I have put no if it at all in this,
so I think it's something I need to put more if it into,
and this looks like a really good way to do that.
- Yeah.
- I think that it would also be great to just,
like if you have an existing readme
and you wanna add some new sections,
you're not quite sure how it should look,
using this as a jumping point of just to grab sections
of a readme to add to an existing one too.
This would be great.
- Yeah, this is really, really cool.
How do you, how do you, can you start with a new one?
Like, can I, well, sorry, let me take it back.
Can I start with an existing one?
Can I somehow upload an existing one?
I don't see. - I don't think so.
- Wait, I can go to raw, hold on.
- Oh, you could probably just drop it into raw.
- Maybe, yes, you can drop it into the raw, that's it.
Okay, perfect.
You go to raw, which it doesn't hide the sections,
it's just pure markdown,
and then you just throw it in there.
Okay.
So--
- But you can edit there.
- No, no, but you can flip it back, I think,
probably once you edit it there.
I'm guessing.
- I don't think you can edit,
so you can only edit in the editor part, so.
- Yeah, it still looks really, really cool.
I've heard of platform as a service.
I've heard of infrastructure of a service.
I've heard of database as a service,
But I guess now we have readme as a service.
I don't know, you just go to the website.
- Readme is good.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
- That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, I'm pretty excited about this.
Actually, I might play around with this for my next project.
I've got some stuff that may end up on PyPI soon
and it'd be cool to do it.
All right, so I've got the next item.
And it's a bit of a skateboarding dog type of thing.
It's not directly, it's not something I think a lot of us
take advantage of, but it's something that is pretty interesting as we kind of look at
how Python is finding its way into the larger computing space. Yeah, and oh, Sam Morley out
there on the live stream before we move on says, "It'd be really cool if you could point this at a
GitHub repo and edit your repo directly, the readme directly on your repo." Yes, absolutely. That's
- That's fantastic.
Yeah, it's a really good idea.
Really good idea.
All right, back to my skateboarding dog.
So there's a company called Cerebras,
and this was sent over to us by Galen Swint,
who is a PhD researcher
who does high performance computing and stuff.
So in that world, I think this may be a real thing.
You look through the article here
that talks about this announcement,
And it's like, well, there's like these 12 customers
or 15 customers of this chip.
But for those of you watching,
there's, or you check out the article,
there's a woman holding a chip.
And normally we think of computer chips
as little tiny things.
This is a 12 inch by 12 inch computer chip,
or if you wanna go metric, 30 centimeters by 30 centimeters.
It is a big, big computer chip.
And the idea is we've had small little chips come along
to do special types of processing.
We've had GPUs come along and do,
be adapted, I guess, for things like machine learning,
training machine learning models and so on.
And this thing just takes that idea to an entire new level.
So for example, I'm always going on and on
and raving about my Mac mini, my M1,
where it's a cheap little computer
relative to Apple stuff, I guess,
but it's super fast.
but it has four performance cores and four efficiency cores.
That's it.
Your GPU, if you've got a really high end one,
might have 4,000 cores.
This insane little chip here has 850,000 AI cores
on one chip.
Is that insane?
What do you do think?
- I'm curious how they, I mean,
this is some major advances in wafer technology
'cause how do you get that big of a chip
with no defects in it?
Yeah, they have apparently 100% efficiency.
Well, first of all, one of the ways you do it is you use the TSMC foundry,
who seems to be taking over all these small high efficiency type of things.
And so they had a previous one that they've more than doubled the core count
for. And another way to kind of appreciate like how much is going on in this chip.
If you look, you know, go back to my, my M1,
It has 0.001.6, 0.0016 trillion transistors.
This has 2.6 trillion.
Or is that another way?
26, 2,600 billion, no, a million,
yeah, billion transistors versus 1.6 billion.
Like it's 2,000 times more on this chip.
So super, super cool.
And now you may be wondering,
all right, all this is interesting,
chips are neat, what is the Python angle? Like why would I bother putting this on
here? Because you know we don't really talk about chips that much except for
when I go on and on about my M1. Here's the deal, if you scroll down in this
article a little bit, you'll see user programmed this insane machine
transparently in machine learning frameworks such as specifically TensorFlow
and PyTorch. Isn't that crazy? So it comes with... Sorry, Marlene, what was that?
No, I was just saying that's really interesting.
Isn't it? Yeah, I was just thinking about you as I'm going through this because you're working on
the Rapids project, which is not the same thing, obviously, but it's kind of in that space, right?
Yeah, it is.
Have you heard of this before?
No, I haven't heard of this. This is, yeah, this is really big and I have not heard of it.
I would recommend reading a bit more about it off the top.
Yeah, for sure.
So there's a lot of interesting things.
And one of the -- I can't remember where exactly they spoke about it,
but they basically say what you do is you program in TensorFlow and PyTorch as normal,
and then they have this custom compiler that rewrites,
that extracts this execution graph to actually scale out to the 850,000 cores.
So the developers don't have to think about how they program against something like this.
I don't want to spend too much time on this because there's something, my next item is super amazing, I want to take the time to dive into it.
But there's another thing that's really interesting.
As you look at it, this thing takes an insane amount of power.
Oh, for this one chip, you're gonna need a four kilowatt power supply with up to a peak
power of 23 kilowatts.
When you plug in an electric car at one of the high speed home chargers, that's seven
kilowatts just to give you a sense.
This is like insane amounts for one chip, right?
You could think of it as a supercomputer.
Like it's one chip.
So anyway.
Our entire lab doesn't draw that much.
So the reason I said it's a skateboarding dog thing is I don't think most of us
will be able to ever even interact with one of these, much less buy one.
They're going to be shipping in the later part of this year,
and the price is something like $3 million US dollars plus.
So this is certainly super computer level,
but I do think it opens the door for really interesting stuff going on
in the high-performance Python space.
So yeah, I'm glad that Galen sent it over.
- Well, I'm totally gonna put 25 bucks into Dogecoin
so that I can afford this later this year.
- Oh, well, speaking of which.
(laughing)
Exactly.
But what about, yeah, definitely.
I think maybe you get this and you create an AI
that can more intelligently mine Dogecoin
and then you take over the world.
Just an investment.
- Yeah.
- It's an investment.
All right, so speaking of large-scale
performance computing. Marlene, take it away. Sure, I have the next item which is
Rapids and I wanted to speak about this because I'm working on it and it's been
what I've been working on for I think yeah well it's been about a year since I
have been with NVIDIA working as a software engineer there and working
specifically on the Rapids project. And so Rapids I think is really interesting
because the goal of Rapids similarly, like the last thing Michael just
showed us, is to speed up data science but this is what GPUs. So I think it's
really, it's been really cool to to work on the Rapids project and I think it's
really interesting as well because it's open source. It's also there's a lot of
Python involved so it's well it's not entirely it's not mostly Python actually
there's a lot of C++ and Cuda code in there as well but I am not you know
personally I'm not I'm not my aim is not to learn Cuda it's to try and avoid that
as much as possible and it was a avoid as much C++ as possible though that's a
bit more reasonable. But one of the goals of the Rapids project is to allow people who
are Pythonistas to work primarily with GPUs and to get those speedups without having to
know any Cuda code or to know any C++. And so I have been working primarily on the Python
side of things and have really been enjoying it. I work specifically on with the QDF DataFrame
library and QDF is basically a, it mirrors, it's a GPU DataFrame library that mirrors pandas.
So if you have a data set and you'd like to do computations on your data set or do different
operations on your dataset. If you can do that with pandas, you should be able, hopefully,
to do the same thing with QDF. But the good thing is that it will probably be faster. I
actually can't definitively say that it will be faster because I remember when I first joined
the project as well, I was, I really, I'm very enthusiastic and I really enjoy sort of sharing
when I'm learning something new. And I remember I was like going around and speaking and saying that,
you know, Kudieff is so much better than Pandas because it's just so much faster. And then my
manager was just like, you need to stop saying that because it's not true all of the time.
It's true most like some of the time. So for smaller data sets, it's probably better to stick
with pandas because there's always this overhead right like as you scale things out and stuff
there's probably like well how do we convert this over and get it onto the gpu and if if that
process takes you know half the time what just doing the computation you might as well just do
the computation right exactly like if you're already if you're mainly doing right i agree
like if you're working with smaller data sets and you are fine with that and that works for you and
and your time is not being wasted a lot,
then I would say, please go ahead and stick with Pandas.
But if you are working on larger datasets,
and the larger your datasets get,
the more the difference is gonna be
in terms of your speedup.
So with very large datasets,
QDF is gonna take a much shorter time
to do computations and things like that.
- Yeah, you actually put a really interesting example
in the show notes here, right?
showing how many zeros of that,
a hundred million items or something like that?
- Yeah, it's a hundred million.
I just kind of like randomly chose a number
to try and make it like,
I didn't also want to take a number that was too big
because I didn't want to spend like a long time doing it.
And I know like for a lot of data scientists,
like I think increasingly people are working
with larger and larger datasets,
just depending which field you're in.
But for the example, I put it on the show notes
and it's on the screen right now.
But if you take a pandas sort of data frame
and try and calculate the mean,
and you take the same QDF dataset
it will take, I think, I'm trying to look at the notes.
It's 105 milliseconds for pandas,
and it's like 1.83 milliseconds for QDF,
- That's awesome.
- And that's like a smaller scale,
I would say, data set compared to some people.
- 100 million, no big deal, yeah.
- It's just 100 million, so it's not a lot.
I mean, it depends, but yeah,
I think it's definitely significant
once you get to a certain threshold,
which is pretty cool.
- Yeah, yeah, over on the RapidSight,
it's RapidSight AI, it says it scales out on multiple GPUs,
So seamlessly scale from a GPU workstation
to multi GPU servers and multi node clusters,
working with Dask as well.
So that's, you know,
Dask is also kind of about scaling pandas
and combining those.
That's pretty awesome.
So.
- I actually saw that you have a Dask course out.
Like I recently saw it.
Definitely gonna take that.
- Yeah, take that one.
- 'Cause I'm gonna be diving to Dask a bit later.
- Awesome.
Yeah, yeah.
We put that together with Matthew Rocklin
and team over at Coiled.
Yeah, and that's actually free.
So people can just drop in and take that course.
I think maybe I even put it in the show notes at the end.
I think it was just announced, let's see.
No, that was last week.
But yeah, this is super cool.
And this one is certainly within normal person's reach.
You get a GPU and you're good to go, right?
- Yeah, I think, yeah.
I mean, I'm just using it on my laptop with the GPU.
You can also use it online.
So there's also a Colab notebook on the rapid site,
I think, that you can click in
and you can kind of experiment.
If you just wanted to do it online,
or I think you can use any sort of online GPU
that you have access to.
So it's very, I think it's trying to make it more accessible
which is great.
- Yeah, that's super cool.
Yeah, very neat.
Well, like I said, I think this is a cool project
to be working on.
So thanks for sharing that with us.
- No problem.
- Brian, is it time for the next one?
- Is it time for the next one?
Oh yes.
But I'm like working on sharing.
So here we go sharing.
Screen sharing stuff.
Actually, so this was a recommended by a listener,
Ira Horeca, I think.
So mentioned this in, it's kind of a rabbit hole.
I spent a whole bunch of time playing with all this stuff last night.
So he recommended Datefinder.
So this is a Python utility, and it kind of is amazing.
So it's a combination of a couple of things.
But so he pointed us to a Comcode video,
which I'm totally a fan of Comcode stuff
because they kind of go through some of the Python libraries
and some of the other, a lot of other things,
but just have kind of a quick demo of what it does.
and I really appreciate that.
It actually, the demo here is better than
the read me and the DateFinder read me.
Maybe I guess a pull request is necessary.
But anyway, what DateFinder does is it takes,
I'm going to scroll down a little bit.
DateFinder parses dates, it refines them.
You give it a string or a bunch of list of strings or something,
and it can find where the dates are in there.
So if you've got a sentence or a paragraph or an entire page
that has a whole bunch of dates in it,
it'll find all of them and then return you a list of dates that it found.
It actually does a whole bunch of things,
but that's the default or the one that we're talking about, find dates.
There's a bunch of other less documented features of Date Finder,
but this is the one that is demonstrated here,
and it's pretty cool.
So what it does, it finds those dates
and then it converts them to date times.
So find dates, it'll find them and convert them
to date times.
And it does that by passing them off
to the DateUtil library.
So this is just kind of a really cool demo.
The list, the little video is a good demo
of showing how to do this.
I also really kind of liked this way to play
so that the video shows this way to play with things
of it just had a list of strings and then used a comprehension
to convert that to call a function
on a whole bunch of strings.
And I thought this was just kind of a clever way
to just play with a function that translates things.
This is a neat thing to do.
I would have probably--
It's usually so hard.
Yeah, it's super hard normally because it's so picky, right?
You've got to go to the date time parsing language almost
lookup.
So if I put %DDDD, that might mean the year.
But if it's capital D, it might mean something different.
So you might say month, day, comma, year.
But there's an example here with month, day, year
without the commas, like March 12, 2010.
But if they forget the comma, it won't parse.
And all those things are really annoying about working
with converting strings to dates.
And this looks like it just doesn't care.
It's nice.
Yeah, and then it's kind of a nice, clean interface to it
as well.
and a limited documentation.
It's just a focus tool, which is nice.
It's interesting that this is just a focus tool that apparently a lot of people
need because according to GitHub,
there's 662 projects using this.
It's used all over the place.
Behind the scenes though,
it's taking the dates that it found,
the strings, and passing those to dateUtil.
If you want to avoid the finding part,
this actually is also a good library to look at for
the usage of how to use DateUtil to easily convert dates.
DateUtil is an amazing tool as well.
DateUtil, I told you this was a rabbit hole.
One of the cool things about it is it doesn't just parse dates,
but you can do relative dates.
You can say today plus three weeks or something,
and it'll figure that out.
And then you can, or you can take two days,
two dates and do date math with it really well.
And also, DateUtil has an amazing time zone support,
probably the best in Python.
So this is pretty, pretty kind of cool.
Also, I think I was looking through the test code.
The test code for DateUtil has,
it's kind of a neat mix of unit tests and Py tests.
Both of them are good examples of how to do both.
And I like some of the newer stuff is using pytest
with parameterization, but it's good.
- I like this a lot.
Marlene, what do you think?
- Yeah, I like it.
I think it's, I'm not actually working with dates
quite often, so I'm trying to think of use cases for myself
other than like maybe converting time zones,
which is like a nightmare.
- Oh, you can say that again.
Oh my gosh.
(laughs)
- Maybe he said that,
but it looks like it would be really useful
for people that are, yeah, that are using it.
- Yeah, I'm showing up some of the examples
from DateUtil of how to use it,
and I imagine this is one of the reasons
why DateFinder is so used,
because this is non-trivial,
you'll even to use DateUtil, so.
- Yeah, that's cool.
- Cool, cool, all right, well, I got the next one.
And this one doesn't exactly come to us from Anthony Shaw,
but I was talking to Anthony about something else
and he's like, "Oh, have you heard of this?
"Have you heard of Cinder?"
And Cinder is pretty awesome.
So Anthony's doing interesting work around Python
and performance at the CPython level,
especially now, I think he's giving a talk on Pigeon
or Piston, Piston, I believe it is.
I'm not 100% sure I might be remembering which one's wrong at PyCon, which is, you know,
we're going to talk more about that in just a second as well.
But Sender is a really interesting fork of CPython from Instagram.
So it's under the Facebook Incubator Project.
And I think we've mentioned it before, I definitely have talked about it before
other presentations, that Instagram has done really interesting things like
disable the garbage collector.
just turn it off 100% and they got less memory usage, not more memory usage by just allowing
the cycles to leak, which is insane. But this is like, speaking of insane, this takes it to a whole
another level. So this is, they've been doing all these low-level things inside of CPython. It's
based on 3.8. Hopefully some of these ideas can be brought forward and shared with everyone,
because there's a lot going on. So let me just cruise down here. I'll just read the little intro
part because it's jam-packed and I'll go into some of the details. So it says this
is the internal performance-oriented production version of CPython 3.8 and it contains a number
of performance optimizations. I feel like performance is some sort of theme of this
this episode. It includes bytecode inline caching, eager evaluations of co-routines, a JIT, just-in-time
compiler, an experimental bytecode compiler that uses type annotations in
some incredibly interesting ways to emit type specialized bytecode
that performs better. So just to give you an example, one of the reasons that math
in the pure Python layer is slower than say C++ or C# is C++ and C#
work with just the value. So if you have the value 7, you might have 2 or 4 bytes
that represent the value 7. In Python you have a pi object pointer which is like
28 bytes pointing out to a thing on the heap that represents the number 7 and
it's a whole lot more work to interact with that and set the reference count on
that and so on instead of just working with the value 7. So one of the
things they do is they actually have typed the they use Python type
annotations to understand, oh, this is an integer, this is a long, and so on type of thing,
and actually convert those to the machine-oriented numbers, right? So just the value four instead of
a pointer. And then it will use what's called boxing. If something else that's outside of this
world needs it, it'll up-level that to like a pi long object pointer type thing and hand it off. So
there's all sorts of stuff like that going on. Interestingly, the first question is, is this
Is this supported?
No, it's not supported.
(laughing)
But there's some interesting things going on here.
And all of this has to be taken with an understanding
that it's in a very specific context
and that may or may not be useful for you.
Brian had pointed out some articles and ideas
around that you're not Instagram, you're not Facebook,
you're not Netflix and so on.
Most of the time, people are building much smaller software
with different constraints.
So they start out by saying, look,
Instagram uses a multi-process web server architecture
where the parent process starts, performs initialization,
and then forks 10 worker processes to handle requests.
This is super common.
Like, for example, TalkBython training literally
does exactly this.
It uses microWSGI.
It starts up, and it creates 10 worker processes
to handle people wanting to take courses and stuff.
So it's not uncommon in the web, but it's not how all Python code runs.
And so the first optimization they did is they created what are called immortal instances.
The reason they were so focused on the garbage collector and all those sorts of things was
when you fork these processes, initially there's a bunch of memory that can be shared, and
that helps with cache locality, that helps with overall memory usage, all sorts of things.
But as soon as something is changed about one of those items, it has to copy a whole
page of memory.
And they realized that when an object's reference count is modified in one of the processes,
it has to copy, replicate, and sort of fork off a bunch of the memory that used to be
shared across all those processes.
So they created what they call "immortal instances" that cannot be, that don't participate in
reference counting or garbage collection.
And that prohibits their reference count number
to change so they can be shared.
So they can mark a whole bunch of the startup stuff
as just don't even look at this or change it
and don't do reference counting on it.
So in their world, it got things faster.
But they said it's something a little bit slower
in straight line code.
But in this sort of forked world, it's better.
The next one is Shadow Bytecode, which is an inline caching
implementation.
And it goes through, applies in certain optimization cases
for generic Python opcodes,
and it'll observe those for functions
that take a lot of time,
and dynamically replace those with specialized opcodes
that it thinks are going to be better.
Another thing it does that's pretty interesting
is it will eagerly evaluate coroutines.
So if I say, this is an async method,
and then in that method I call await some function call,
normal Python is going to create a coroutine.
It's gonna schedule it on the asyncio event loop
and it's gonna get to it.
And that's a lot of overhead,
but maybe that function says inside,
the first thing is, if this case,
just return the cached answer,
otherwise go to the database,
await the response and so on.
And what they realized is,
if it's going to go through that first case,
it's not actually awaiting something.
So they'll actually execute the awaited thing
until it actually needs to become async so it'll like look sort of effectively
look inside the function and say is the path we're going on this time gonna be
async or not and if the answer is no it will run it without async which means it
skips all that context switching and all that stuff which is pretty crazy it also
has the cinder JIT which is a method in time JIT compiler think C# Java maybe
be even JavaScript v8. So it's enabled for every function that is called.
Actually it's not, sorry. If it is, it'll make it slow. So you can basically say
which functions should be optimized. But they say it supports almost everything
that Python can do, and it has a 1.5 to 4 times speed up of the Python
benchmarks, which is pretty interesting. They also have this thing called strict
modules which is actually a static analyzer capable of validating top-level
code to see if a module has side effects and can treat it differently if it
doesn't. So you can have an immutable strict module type that is sort of a
replacement for Python's regular module that behaves and loads differently and
so on. And then the thing I talked about the numbers more broadly is under this
category of static Python. It's an experimental bytecode compiler that
makes use of type annotations to emit better things. And check this out, it can
deliver performance similar to mypyc or Cython. And this thing will go up
to seven times faster than regular Python for the Richards benchmarks. And I
don't know if the 4x improvement before is like in addition to this so you get
get 28 or do you just get seven?
I don't really know.
But there's a lot of things going on here
and a lot of different ideas about how this works.
So I'm just scratching the surface on the details,
but I feel like I've gone on and on about it.
What do you think?
- That's really interesting.
I saw, I think, is there a talk about it at Python?
- It is coming up, yes.
They're going to give a talk on this at Python.
- Yeah, it was one of the talks I was looking forward
to listening to.
Yeah, just because I think it's super interesting
to be able to kind of play around with
that they were able to kind of make their own version
of Python and it might, I don't know,
like I think that there's, like you mentioned,
Anthony and I also know Victor, I think,
and someone else were also working on like sub-interpreters
and different things to make Python faster.
So I'm really curious to see if the core devs or people
will also be listening to this talk
and maybe take some ideas from it.
It would be really cool to kind of see.
And I mean, it's always good to get speed ups,
even if they, I don't know.
I don't know if it will help like general,
like normal Python users,
but I think it's always good to look into.
- Yeah, yeah, I agree.
I think some things here are absolutely transferable
to regular general purpose CPython.
And some of them might not be.
For example, the immortal instances,
that might be a thing that just--
they do that, and it makes sense for their large-scale farm
of servers.
But the JIT that takes the type information
and does math many, many times faster,
everybody would want that.
We all work with numbers at some level or another.
Brian?
- Well, one of the things I love about the,
I mean, this kind of applies to all of these
sort of speed up projects.
One of the things I love about Python
is that just the generalness of it.
You can throw it, data structures can hold anything.
So it's, but there are times where you really are using
a huge array of floats or a huge array of integers
or a huge array of like a fixed data size.
Those are times where I don't need it to be generic.
I just need it to be fast.
So having something, that's the part where I think
it'd be interesting to pull into regular Python.
But don't we get that with some of the data science stuff
anyway, some of the number?
- With NumPy and stuff?
Yeah, you do, but you can't do generic programming with it.
You do sort of matrix math type of things.
And this one, like the answer used to be,
okay, well, this function is slow.
This serialization deserialization section might be slow.
So rewrite that in Cython, for example.
And what's really cool about this
is you can write regular Python
and just put type annotations on it.
And then it goes as fast as Cython.
And you don't even have to do like a separate compiler,
I believe in this world, right?
'Cause they have, the JIT just knows that.
And then we'll, like, as you run it,
it'll just compile and run it.
So, which is, I think it just sort of makes
some of those ideas closer and more automatic
for most people.
- I kind of think, I foresee a future where we have
sort of some types that affect runtime.
There's like this tension in the,
that I sense in the Python core people
of whether or not types should be just an afterthought
or whether they should be really part of the runtime.
And I think there are some cases
where having them be part of the runtime
might be a good thing.
- Yeah, and this is interesting
because what they do is they define these static modules
and then in there, they can treat them differently.
Sorry, Marlene, go ahead.
I spoke over you.
- Oh, no problem.
I was just saying that I always see,
like I feel like I always see on Twitter
people kind of like ranting about how they don't like that direction that Python is going
in, like this idea of putting in like annotations and things like that. I've seen some people
that are not super big fans of that. I'm not really sure why. I generally would like to
understand like, I think most people, or not most people, but I think some people would
prefer Python to maybe remain as it is, but I do think that there's like, just having
it be a bit faster in a couple of cases would be helpful.
So I don't know.
I don't know if it's in that direction.
I'm with you.
And one of the things they point out in this readme announcing the project is that you
can still do gradual typing.
So you can, in some places, have no types.
In some places have some types.
And the thing can convert and just deal with that automatically.
And I think that's the reason that the types are really
welcome in Python, is because you can use them if you want,
but you don't have to.
As opposed to places like TypeScript, which said, well,
JavaScript doesn't have types, so we're going to add this
very strict type system.
And if you don't fit it exactly, we're going to not
compile and complain, and it's going to be really not good.
This feels like it continues that forgiving nature of
Python to let you opt into it.
But if you do, it can go faster.
- That's the direction I'd like to see.
I'd like to see, I personally would like to see
types be really a full-fledged feature of Python.
- I love that they're optional, but if they're there,
let's see how much we can do
and improve things with them, right?
- Yep.
- 100%.
- Yeah.
All right, Marlene, you got the last one.
I got it on screen for you.
Okay, yes, the last one for today is PyCon US,
which I'm very excited about.
It started today, which is really great.
Are both of you attending?
I don't know if you're attending.
- Yes, absolutely.
Right? - Okay.
- Yes. - Brian, are you attending?
Yay.
Yeah, I think it's such a great event
in terms of the fact that I know it's PyCon US,
but it is at the moment, it's the largest Python gathering
or largest PyCon on earth, I think.
Which is very cool because it means that you can meet people
from all around the world.
Like I remember, I'm really sad that it's not in person
because like last year, like I remember, not last year,
but the year before that,
that's where I actually met you, Michael,
for the first time.
I think we were literally,
I think we were like at a table with like you
and Anthony Shaw and like Lucas Longa
and it was like, and I was just randomly there.
But it was such a cool discussion
and I really love the idea of being able to
be in a room with people that are like contributing to Python
- That's my favorite part of PyCon.
Yeah, it was so nice to meet you as well.
That is actually my favorite part of PyCon is the,
just you happen to end up at a table or out for a beer or coffee with this group of people
and you're like, wow, I got these connections and this experience that just I wouldn't.
So I'm very much looking forward to coming back in person.
But there's a bunch of great talks coming up.
Exactly.
So this year, it's also really, although it's online, the online platform is very cool.
And there's still lots of great talks to watch.
In the show notes I put down a list of the talks that I'm excited to watch, but I also
want to just put in a word for the things that I will be doing at PyCon US this year.
The first thing I'm going to be doing is I'm going to be hosting the diversity and inclusion
work group discussion, along with four other really amazing women that are part of the
diversity and inclusion work group.
I do want to comment here because we got some comments about it, some feedback.
I posted a picture of our group that's going to be having this discussion or
hosting this panel and it's all women.
And someone was just like, why is it all women?
How is this diversity?
So I do want to throw it out there.
I just want to throw it out there that we did try, like the work group itself has
a lot of, it has a good balance of men and women in it, but then when I asked people
if they want to come on the panel, it was only like women that volunteered.
So it's not my fault, and I am aware of that.
That's just a general feedback there.
But I think the panel will be really exciting.
It's going to be on Saturday on the main stage at 12 p.m. EST, I think.
And yeah, if you are going to be there, I really would encourage you to attend.
There's going to be question and answer.
And I just think it's such an important thing.
I know that sometimes diversity can seem like a really tiring thing to talk about, especially
like recently.
I feel like sometimes people use it as like this buzzword and it can and people gonna be like
Oh my gosh and just turn off when they hear hear the word diversity
but I really do think it's important and
Particularly now as Python is growing in popularity. I think a few years ago. It was okay for
Like the nucleus of Python to be based in the United States or based in Europe
But it's growing so quickly.
Python for I don't know how many years now has been the most popular language in the world.
And I know even for me, I'm in Zimbabwe right now,
and it's one of the most popular languages here where I live.
And so just providing the group,
like our main purpose is to figure out how we can support the PSF
to try and serve Pythonistas from around the world better
and to connect the community better
and to have better representation
and different things like that.
So very excited about that one.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
And thanks for your work here.
I definitely agree that we're stronger together, right?
And one thing I would really like to see,
and I think we're getting there,
is when people look at Python and programming in general,
but like the area we control is generally the Python space,
we have influence over that.
When people look at that world, I would like them to say,
I can see myself being part of that.
I can see that I could belong there, right?
And if that's not the case, then how do we make that the case?
- Exactly, absolutely.
I think exactly that.
And I would love to see that happening
in the next few years.
I would love to see, one of my things is
I'd love to see more women core developers
and more like global core developers as well,
and also people on the board and different things.
And those are all goals that we are working towards.
And obviously we don't know like the perfect way
to achieve something or the perfect way to do things,
but it's something that I think is really great
and exciting to work on.
So please attend if you are listening to this.
And let me know if you like came from this podcast,
it would be fantastic to see you there.
Maybe just comment.
And then, oh, another thing that I am doing for PyCon this year as well is I will be -- one,
I will be in the -- so there's like a lounge area.
Well, there's like a PSF booth.
And if you would like to just -- if you're going to be there in the morning on Saturday
or on Friday, I will be hanging out in the PSF booth.
And so, yeah, if you just want to talk about Python or the PSF or anything, I will be there.
And I'll also be hosting the EMEA meeting.
So if you're in Europe, the Middle East or Africa,
there's a members meeting on Saturday.
I think it's at 10 a.m. Central African time.
I'm not sure what time that is in other places.
But I know that 10 a.m.
- It's on the schedule, right?
It's on the schedule.
- Yeah, we can use the date time thing, I don't know.
- Exactly.
Pull up the record, throw it into date time finder.
Exactly, please do that. So I will be hosting that and that's going to be in the morning and
if you would like, even if you're not a member, you can watch it on the PSF YouTube channel. It's
going to be streaming there or you could join, there's a meetup link that I put in the
show notes so people could join that way as well. So yeah, Python is going to be really exciting and
and I'm really looking forward to it.
So just encouraging people to come along for sure.
- Fantastic.
Yeah, it should be fun.
And even though it is super sad that it's not in person,
it's not in Pittsburgh this year,
it's more, I think in some ways it's more accessible
to people around the world, right?
They don't have to travel there.
They can just log in and attend it.
And that's so much less expensive
Then I flew to the US and I paid $1,000 for a hotel.
So there's a little silver lining.
You know, out there in the live stream, Sam Morley,
it really says, "I really wish I could go to PyCon
in person."
Adam Parkin out there says, "Me too, maybe in 2020."
I think so.
Finally, Sam is also thinks it's great
that we're having this diversity conversation
and paying attention to it.
- One of the things I've noticed in 2020
is all the regional, actually last year also though,
but the 2020 and 2021,
we've got all these PyCons going on all over the world.
I used to think of like PyCon US as the PyCon
and everything else is regional.
Now I think of PyCon US as a regional conference also.
It's the regional one that's close to the people
that are in the US.
It isn't necessarily better.
It's, I love it, it's great.
Anybody from, that's hosting it, yes, it's better, but no.
I like all of them and I was excited to get to participate
and watch videos from all over the world this year.
That was pretty neat.
But yeah, I'm on board with,
I wanna get back to regional stuff.
I'd like to see people in person.
I can't wait.
- Yeah, I will say for sure,
Like, even if people are feeling adventurous,
there is a regional conference,
I didn't mention it before,
that I am also part of the organizing team for,
which is PyCon Africa.
So if you would like to travel to another PyCon
in a different part of the world,
when we are able to travel
and the world gets back to some form of re-travel,
definitely recommend also hopping over to PyCon Africa.
I think, like you said, I think Python US is fantastic.
And one of the unique things about that is that it's a conference that has been there for so long,
so a lot of people are going to be there.
But there 100% are a lot of great conferences like Python Africa,
which you should attend if you can.
I think they're really just as exciting.
And there's so many cool things that you get to experience.
I think for me, it's like whenever I go to the US,
like last year, I'd never been to Ohio before.
And like, I would never have a reason
that I would think to myself,
let me go to America to go to Ohio.
But I feel like it was such a good experience for me
and I really liked it and I was really surprised by that.
And so I think it's the same way,
like Pythons are a great way as well
to like experience new places.
So yeah, definitely recommend that.
- Absolutely.
- Well, that wraps up our six.
Anybody got any extra information to share?
- I've got a couple.
Marlene, anything else you wanna throw out there
to tell people about?
- Nothing else for me other than the fact
that if you do want to reach out to me,
you can reach out to me on Twitter.
I'm Marlene_Zaw there.
I'm also Marlene_Zaw on GitHub, I think,
and on my website.
My website is MarleneMangami.com.
So if you would like to reach out to me there,
feel free to.
I'm always happy to like chat about Python or anything.
- Nice.
- Cool.
- All right.
So I got a couple.
One made me really excited, this tweet from GitHub.
It says, "Is your fork behind?
"You can now sync your parent repo
"with just a single click."
So check this out.
If you go to your fork now,
next to contribute for your PRs and stuff,
there is now a fetch upstream button,
and all you have to do is click it,
and then automatically your fork will become in sync
with whatever you forked it from.
You just have to go and go check it out,
add an upstream origin, and then pull from that,
and then merge that in wherever you want it to go to.
Over here, you just click this button,
and boom, it's good to go.
So I think this will just lower the bar
for people forking something,
they wanna get the current one,
and then make a change to see if they could contribute back.
Here's one fewer steps in that process.
- Do you have any idea if it stays in sync,
or if it's, you have to--
- No, it's a one-time type of thing, I believe.
It says there's this many changes, we'll pull over,
and it basically just automatically does the process
at that time.
But still pretty nice.
Pretty nice.
Next one, I'll clean up here.
Flask 2.0 is out.
And that one was sent in to us from Adam Parkin
that, hey, heads up, this is now actually live.
So very, very cool.
And--
- Yeah, actually everything from Palettes has been updated.
So--
>>Victor: Yeah.
I happen to have spoken--
done a podcast recording with David Lord, who
runs Palettes, and Phil Jones, who does core
and contributes back to Palettes as well,
about all the stuff coming in Flask 2.0,
all the exciting stuff, and their future plans as well.
So yeah, you can watch the live stream of that
or wait a day or two until the episode is out
and just listen at Talk Python as well.
But yeah, very, very cool.
Yeah.
And then Adam also at the live stream again says,
this is super sweet, always find it a headache
to sync with upstream.
Yeah, about the GitHub thing.
That's cool.
- Cool.
- All right, should we?
- I've got a-- - You got a joke?
- Well, I got a couple of things I wanted to mention.
- Go for it. - Sorry.
I had Brett Cannon on last week on testing code
and huge feedback from everybody
that it was a great episode.
We talked about packaging.
I'll have Ryan Howard on this week
talking about Playwright, so that'll be fun.
And I wanted to mention a thank you to the 71 Patreon patrons
that we have on Patreon.
So thank you for supporting the show.
Thanks.
Yeah, thank you, everyone.
How about a joke?
A joke, yes.
Sorry for almost skipping over your extras.
No worries.
You ready?
Yeah.
So this one, I talked about that crazy giant ship thing.
And we've got Marlene doing Rapid.
So I thought maybe some kind of machine learning joke.
Here's a bunch of robots in school
and they go like little Android looking things,
small ones 'cause they're students, they're kids.
And they're in machine learning class
and there's a big box of dirty data.
Like a bunch of bits that are like kind of gray
and just have dirt on them.
And the teacher says, "Robbie, stop misbehaving
or I will send you back to data cleaning."
[LAUGHTER]
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
That's where they're spending half the day anyway.
Yeah, they actually spend most of their time there.
That's right.
I don't know who is drawing them.
One of the robots is looking the wrong way.
I was like, why is it drawn like that?
I don't understand.
I don't fully get the joke either, but there it is.
Hey, a more concrete, really quick close-out question
I see in the live stream here is,
Is there a difference between KudF and Pandas in terms of utilization?
I don't know.
In terms of how you actually use them?
Well, I don't think so.
For the most part, when you're using KudF, the way it's built is to mirror Pandas, so
the APIs are really similar.
So ideally, the methods that you would use when you're using pandas are exactly the same
methods that you would use when you're using cuDF.
The only difference is like when you're creating a pandas data frame, for example, you would
use pd.dataframe, for example.
But then with cuDF, you would say cuDF.dataframe.
If you make it like into a variable or something like that, then the methods that you're going
to call are going to be probably identical.
So it's really, I think it's really,
it's really easy to try.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah, and Dask has similar stuff as well, right?
You create a Dask data frame instead of a Pandas data frame,
but the API looks quite similar.
They're not always 100% compatible,
but most of the mainstream things, right?
- Definitely, so it is, yeah, it's built definitely
to make it as easy as possible to switch between the two,
so it's very similar, yeah.
- Cool.
Ryan, is that it?
Are we done?
- Yeah.
So thanks a lot, everybody, for showing up.
- Yeah, thanks.
- Thank you, Phil. - Thanks, Ryan.
Thank you, Marlene.
It's really great to have you here.
- Bye, Phil.
- No problem.
Thanks for having me.
[BLANK_AUDIO]